AWS Notes: 

All AWS Services 

AWS Global Infrastructure : 

what is region? what is an AZ?
A region is a geograpical area, Each region consists of 2(or more) available zones.
An available zone(AZ) is simply a Data center.

what is an edge location?
Edge location are endpoints for AWS which are used for caching content, typically this 
consists of cloudfront, amazon's content delivery network(CDN).
There are many more edge locations than regions, current there are over 96 edge locations

Difference between a region, availabilty zone and an edge location:
	-A region is a physical location in the world which consists of two or more available zones
	-An AZ is one ore more discrete data centers, each with redundant power, networking
	and connectivity, housed in separate facilities.
	-Edge locations are endpoints for AWS which are used for caching content, Typically this 
	consists of CloudFront, Amanzons content delivery Network(CDN).

Compute: 

	EC2 - Elastic Compute Cloud (cloud compute)
		These are Vitrual machines inside AWS platform, Pyhsical dedicated machines can be there
	EC2 Container Services
		To run and maintain docker contains at scale
	Elastic Beanstalk
		For developers who dont understand AWS, just to upload their code.
	Lambda
		Code upload to cloud, control when executes, dont need to worry about underlaying machines. Example when people upload an image
		to website and we want to place text on top, create lambda function to place text, and trigger is when the photo is uploaded.
	Lightsail
		Amazon VPS (Virtual Private Service) service, provision the server provides fixed ip address that we can login to the server from, rdpx for windows and ssh access for linux and also gives management console.
	Batch
		To run the batch computing.
Storage :
	
	S3 - Simple Storage Services(Oldest storage service)
		Basically we upload the data into buckets in the cloud. offers durable avaialble storage for flat files
	EFS - Elastic file System
		Network attached storage so we can store files on efs volume and mount that to multiple virtual machines.
	Glacier 
		Data archieval, to archieve data to check it for year or so and its very cheap
	Snowball
		A way to bring in alarge amount of data into cloud. 
	Storage Gateway
		esentially virtual machines install in data center or data headoffice and replicate information back to S3.
Databases:
	
	RDS - Relational Database Service
		MySQL, Microsoft sql, postgre, aroura (amazon version of mysql), oracle etc..,
	DynamoDB 
		Non-relation databases.
	Elasticache
		a way of caching commonly queried from database. For example top 10 products better to use elasticache rather than calling services every time.		
	Red Shift
		is for data warehousing or business intellegence for complex queries, like business needs some profit and loss in a region.
	
Migration:
	
	AWS Migration Hub
		Tracking service, to track the application when they are migrated AWS and integrate with other services within migration framework.
	Application Discovery Service
		Automated set of tools detects the application dependencies.
	Database Migration Service
		Migrate databases onprimises into amazon cloud databases.
	Server Migration Service
		Migrate virtual and physical servers into amazon cloud.
	Snowball
		Migrate large amount of data into amazon cloud.(Terabytes)

Networking and Content Delivery:

	VPC - Amazon Virtual Private Cloud
		Virtual data centers, configure fire wall, route tables, etc.., complicated.
	CloudFront
		Amazon content delivery network. Media assets like video files, images files, 
		if they are stored in london and you want to use them in austraila, what cloudfront does is can store it closer to australia on a edge node.
	Route53
		Amazon DNS Service, for example phone book. if we look up a name we get the phone number same way if DNS will respond with ip address when we put in a website name.
	API gateway
		Creating our own api for other services to talk to.
	DirectConnect
		Way of running a dedicated line from data center into amazon into VPC
	
Developer Tools:
	
	CodeStar
		Group of developers working together quite easily, this is like project managing the code. 
	CodeCommit
		a way of place to store the code. its source control service. Can store the git projects on service.
	CodeBuild
		Runs unit tests and compile and produces deployables.
	CodeDeploy
		Deployement service to automated deployments to ec2 services, onprimse instances and lambda functions.
	CodePipleine
		Continuous delivery services.
	X-Ray
		Debug and analyse serverless applications.
	Cloud9
		IDE on web browser. 
	
Management Tools:
	
	CloudWatch
		is a monitoring service for sys ops.
	CloudFormaiton
		is a way of scripting infrastructure.
	CloudTrail
		is used to log changes to AWS environment. By Default it is on.
	Config
		monitors the configuration of AWS environment. 
	OpsWorks
		uses both chef and puppet. way of automating env and configuration of env
	Service Catalog
		Manage a catalog of it services that are approved for use of AWS (Governence and complaince reqs)
	Systems Manager
		Interface for managing the AWS resources. 
	Trusted Advisor
		Will give you advise multiple disciples. if AWS services how much they are being used. 
	ManagedServices
		Will be used to manage EC2 instances etc..,

Media Service:

	Elastic Transcoder
		Takes the video and resizes according to the deivces.
	MediaConvert
		File Based video transcoding serivce with broadcast features.
	MediaLive
		Broadcast grade live video processing service, creates high quality video for broadcast on tv, set top boxes etc..,
	MediaPackage
		Prepares and protects the media to broadcast over internet
	MediaStore
		Place to store the media, great performance, good consistency, optimize, load latency
	MediaTailor
		Allows for targeted advertise into video steams without sacrifisng the quality of media broadcast.

Machine Learning:
	
	SageMaker
		Makes it real easy for developers to use deep learning.
	Comprehend
		Sentiment analysis of the data, whether people are talking good or bad about products etc..,
	DeepLens
		Artifically aware camera. analyse what it is looking at.
	Lex
		way of communicating with customers. Alex uses this LEX.
	Machine Learning
		Different to deep learning. Deep learning is around nueral networks, whereas machine learning is to vary entry level, throw a data set into cloud and it will analyse the data set and determine whether or not any new data and predict an outcome. Amazon uses machine learning to throw recomendation of products.
	Polly
		Takes text and turns into speech. 
	Rekognition
		Does both video and images, when upload it tells what is in the image or video like a dog or car etc..,
	Amazon Translate
		Translate english into other languages
	Amazon Transcribe
		Sounds into Close captions.takes a video or mp3 files and turns recognises speech and turns into text.

Analytics
	
	Athena
		Allows to run sql queries on S3 buckets.
	EMR - Elastic Map Reduce
		Processing large amounts of data.
	CloudSearch, Elastic Search Service	
		Search services for AWS, used for cloud search via forum search.
	Kinesis
		Way of ingesting large amounts of data into AWS. Could be things like tweets, posts etc.., used for collating large amounts of data streamed from multiple sources.
	Kinesis Video Sreams
		Allows to ingest the video streams and run processes against it.
	QuickSight
		Amazon Business intellgent tool. 
	Data Pipeline
		Moving data between different AWS service. 
	Glue
		Used for ETL.
	
security & Identity & Compliance

	IAM - identity access management
	Cognito 
		Device Authentication. like using facebook etc..,
	GuardDuty
		monitors for malacious activites
	Inspector
		Agent store in the virtual machines. Run to get reports of vulnerabilites.
	Macie
		Scan S3 buckets and looks for Personal Identification 
	Certificate Manager
		Way of Managing SSL certificates
	CloudHSM-Hardware Security Modules
		Dedicated bits of hardware used to store keys. use this keys to access services. 
	Directory Service
		a way of integrating Microsoft active director services with AWS services.
	WAF - Web application Fireware
		stop cross site scitping, sql injections. Looking at application layer or level. 
	Shield
		By deafult we get it for some AWS services. Prevents D-DOS attacks.
	Artifact
		Audit and compliance. portal of ondemand access to download AWS compliance reports.
	
Mobile Services
	
	Mobile Hub	
		Management Console for mobile app. 
	PinPoint
		Push Notifications for pin point location etc..,
	AWS AppSync
		Updates the data in web and mobile applications. it does offline updates too.
	Device Farm
		way of testing apps on real life devices.
	Mobile Analytics
		analytics service for mobile.

AR/VR (Agumented Reality/Virtual Reality)

	Sumerian
		first language written down. 
		
	Read book : Ready Play o one.
	
Application Integration
	
	Step Functions
		Way of managing different Lambda functions
	Amazon MQ
		Way of doing mesasge Q's 
	SNS - Notification Service
			
	SQS - Queue Service
		
	SWF - Simple Workflow service
		creates a simple workflow service.

Customer Engagement
	
	Connect 
		call center in cloud, dynamic, natural and customer engagements in a scale.
	Simple Email Service
		sending large amounts of emails. 
		
Business Productivity
	
	Alexa for Business
		use to connect meetings etc..,
	Chime
		like google hangout for business video conference rooms.
	Work Docs
		storing work related documents safely and securly.
	Work Mail
		like office365. using email thru amazon like google mail. 
	
Desktop & App Streaming

	Workspaces
		VDI solution, where we are running OS in AWS cloud.	
	AppStream 2.0
		Streaming the application. App is running in cloud but can be streamed.
		
Internet of things
	
	iOT - Internet of things. 
		Way of thounds of devices sending back the data. could be video feeds etc..,
	iOT Device Management 
		Manage the Devices 
	Amazon FreeRTOS
		OS for micro controllers
	Greengrass
		Software that lets run local compute message, data caching, sync and machine learning interfaces for the connect devices in a secured way.
	
Game Development
	
	GameLift
		a way to develop games. 
		
DONT FREAK OUT

	SA Associate
		AWS Gloval Infrastructure
		Compute
		Storage
		Databases
		Migration
		Networking & Content Delivery
		Management Tools
		Analytics
		Security & identity & Compliance
		Applcaiton Integration
		Desktop & App Streaming
	
	Developer Associate
		AWS Gloval Infrastructure
		Compute
		Storage
		Databases
		Networking & Content Delivery
		Management Tools
		Analytics
		Security & identity & Compliance
		Applcaiton Integration
	
	Sysops Administrator Associate
		AWS Gloval Infrastructure
		Compute
		Storage
		Databases
		Networking & Content Delivery
		Management Tools
		Security & identity & Compliance
		Applcaiton Integration
		
https://api.notifymyecho.com/v1/NotifyMe?notification=Hello%20World!&accessCode=amzn1.ask.account.AHMBZA6QRIEQPYVH3HQ5SS7OKAD46YJJEBWHHF64CKQGLU4562BLMERNS5LEMFZHOCE7HDE3OTA7XEHYPDRCZJUTFNWYEDYEXG62PK2J4Z3DPT3CFUI56EPU2H6ZOMDL5QE55H5CDRGYP5OBQAR72Y647VZPPTQSSV6JFU545WXKG4X6HJUAAIHPZ7NRGZQ2NV6CHPVWH4VYCSA
